jhipster digital ocean (#1163)
oktadeveloper/okta-blog: _source/_posts/2022-06-01-jhipster-digital-ocean.md

---
layout: blog_post
title: "JHipster Application Deployment to DigitalOcean Kubernetes"
author: jimena-garbarino
by: contractor
communities: [devops,java]
description: "A step-by-step guide for JHipster deployment to DigitalOcean cloud"
tags: []
tweets:
- ""
- ""
- ""
image:
type: conversion
---

Cloud adoption continues to increase rapidly and worldwide, and not only in the software industry. Every year more and more companies move their applications to the cloud. In the last JHipster community survey, in December 2021, users who participated expressed they value getting to production fast, thanks to JHipster, and requested more tutorials on deployment to cloud platforms. DigitalOcean is among the most popular "other" cloud vendors, according to some surveys. This post is a quick walk-through of the deployment of a JHipster microservices architecture to a Kubernetes cluster in DigitalOcean's cloud.

**This tutorial was created with the following frameworks and tools**:
- [JHipster 7.6.0](https://www.jhipster.tech/installation/)
- [Java OpenJDK 11](https://jdk.java.net/java-se-ri/11)

> - [Okta CLI 0.9.0](https://cli.okta.com)

Reviewer: Let's mention 0.10.0 here https://github.com/okta/okta-cli/releases

Author: Done

- [doctl 1.72.0-release](https://docs.digitalocean.com/reference/doctl/)
- [kubectl 1.23](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/#kubectl)
- [minikube v1.25.2](https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/docs/start/)
- [k9s v0.25.18](https://k9scli.io/topics/install/)
- [Docker 20.10.12](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/)

**Table of Contents**{: .hide }
* Table of Contents
{:toc}

## About DigitalOcean

DigitalOcean is a cloud services company founded in 2011 by brothers Ben and Moisey Uretsky. The headquarters are in New York City in the United States, and they also have offices in Massachusetts and Bangalore. Last March 2022, it reached its IPO (Initial Public Offering) and some press articles describe it as the cloud services provider for small businesses: "Cloud services for the Little Guy".

{% img blog/jhipster-digital-ocean/do-logo.png alt:"DigitalOcean Logo" width:"200" %}{: .center-image }

> DigitalOcean Kubernetes (DOKS) is a managed Kubernetes service that lets you deploy Kubernetes clusters without the complexities of handling the control pane and containerized infrastructure. Clusters are compatible with standard Kubernetes toolchains and integrate natively with DigitalOcean load balancers and block storage volumes. DOKS offers fast provisioning and deployment, and provides a free high-availability control pane, for reliability management. It can also provide a Cluster Autoscaler that automatically adjusts the size of the cluster by adding or removing nodes based on the cluster's capacity to schedule pods. Pricing for Kubernetes workloads is based on resources required by the cluster, droplets, block storage, and load balancers.

Reviewer: Is Cluster Autoscaler a product name? If not, we should uncapitalize it.

Author: It is a product name

The company publishes its data center [certification reports](https://www.digitalocean.com/trust/certification-reports) on its web, and all the data centers have approved two or more of the following certifications: SOC (System and Organization Controls) 1 Type II, SOC 2 Type II, SOC 3 Type II, ISO/IEC 27001:2013 (Security techniques - Information security management systems). PCI-DSS (Payment Card Industry - Data Security Standard) has been certified in all data centers.

## Set up a microservices architecture for Kubernetes

> Before working on the application, you need to install JHipster. The classical way of working with JHipster is to do a local installation with NPM, follow the instructions at [jhipster.tech](https://www.jhipster.tech/installation/#local-installation-with-npm-recommended-for-normal-users).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before working on the application, you need to install JHipster. The classical way of working with JHipster is to do a local installation with NPM.

----
npm install -g generator-jhipster@7
----

If you'd rather use Yarn or Docker, follow the instructions at [jhipster.tech](https://www.jhipster.tech/installation/#local-installation-with-npm-recommended-for-normal-users).
```

Make sure to change `----` to back ticks with `bash`.

Author: Updated

> For this test, start from the `reactive-jhipster` example in the `java-microservices-examples` repository on [GitHub](https://github.com/oktadeveloper/java-microservices-examples). The example is a JHipster reactive microservices architecture with Spring Cloud Gateway and Spring WebFlux, Vue as the client framework, and Gradle as the build tool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this test, start from the `reactive-jhipster` example in the `java-microservices-examples` repository on [GitHub](https://github.com/oktadev/java-microservices-examples). The example is a JHipster reactive microservices architecture with Spring Cloud Gateway and Spring WebFlux, Vue as the client framework, and Gradle as the build tool. You can read about how it was built in [Reactive Java Microservices with Spring Boot and JHipster](/blog/2021/01/20/reactive-java-microservices).
```

```shell

> git clone https://github.com/oktadeveloper/java-microservices-examples.git

Reviewer: ```suggestion
git clone https://github.com/oktadev/java-microservices-examples.git
```

cd java-microservices-examples/reactive-jhipster
```
If you inspect the project folder, you will find sub-folders for the `gateway` service, which will act as the front-end application, and a gateway to the `store` and `blog` microservices, which also have their subfolders. A `docker-compose` sub-folder contains the service definitions for running the application containers.

The next step is to generate the Kubernetes deployment descriptors. In the project root folder, create a `k8s` directory and run the `k8s` JHipster sub-generator:

```shell
mkdir k8s
cd k8s
jhipster k8s
```

Choose the following options when prompted:

- Type of application: **Microservice application**
- Root directory: **../**
- Which applications? (select all)
- Set up monitoring? **No**
- Which applications with clustered databases? select **store**
- Admin password for JHipster Registry: (generate one)
- Kubernetes namespace: **demo**
- Docker repository name: (your docker hub username)
- Command to push Docker image: `docker push`
- Enable Istio? **No**
- Kubernetes service type? **LoadBalancer**
- Use dynamic storage provisioning? **Yes**

> - Use a specific storage class? (leave empty)

Reviewer: You could also use the `jhipster-k8s` directory, which already has this step completed (albeit with my Docker Hub username). I don't think it hurts to have this as part of the tutorial though.

Author: Should I remove it and show how to replace the docker hub username?

Reviewer: It's up to you. What do you think is better from a learning perspective?

Author: In this case, I would like to include the k8s generation step, which is related to the kubernetes deployment.

> **NOTE**: You can leave the Docker repository name blank for running Kubernetes locally, but a repository will be required for the cloud deployment, so go ahead and create a Docker personal account, and the image pull configuration will be ready for both local and cloud deployments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**NOTE**: You can leave the Docker repository name blank for running Kubernetes locally, but a repository will be required for the cloud deployment, so go ahead and create a [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/) personal account, and the image pull configuration will be ready for both local and cloud deployments.
```

Build the `gateway`, `store` and `blog` services container images with Jib. For example, for the `gateway` service:

```shell
cd ../gateway
./gradlew bootJar -Pprod jib -Djib.to.image=<docker-repo-name>/gateway
```

> Check the images were uploaded to [DockerHub](hub.docker.com), and navigate to the project root folder in the terminal for the next step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check the images were uploaded to [DockerHub](https://hub.docker.com), and navigate to the project root folder in the terminal for the next step.
```

> ## Configure Okta for authentication

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Configure authentication with OpenID Connect and Okta
```

One more configuration step before running the architecture locally, let's configure Okta for authentication.

{% include setup/cli.md type="jhipster" %}

The settings from the generated `.okta.env` must be added to the `k8s/registry-k8s/application-configmap.yml`:

```yml
data:
  application.yml: |-
    ...
    spring:
      security:
        oauth2:
          client:
            provider:
              oidc:
                issuer-uri: https://<your-okta-domain>/oauth2/default
            registration:
              oidc:
                client-id: <client-id>
                client-secret: <client-secret>
```

> Enable the OIDC authentication in the `jhiipster-registry` service by adding the `oauth2` profile in the `k8s/registry-k8s/jhipster-registry.yml` file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enable the OIDC authentication in the `jhipster-registry` service by adding the `oauth2` profile in the `k8s/registry-k8s/jhipster-registry.yml` file:
```

```yml
- name: SPRING_PROFILES_ACTIVE
  value: prod,k8s,oauth2
```

## Run locally with Minikube

Install [Minikube](https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/docs/start/) and [`kubectl`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/).

For Minkube, you will need at least 2 CPUs. Start MiniKube with your number of CPUs:

```shell
cd k8s
minikube --cpus <ncpu> start
```
Minikube will log the Kubernetes and Docker versions on start:

```
Preparing Kubernetes v1.23.3 on Docker 20.10.12 ...
```

> For the `store-mongodb` deployment to work, the property `Service.spec.publishNotReadyAddresses` was required, instead of the annotation `service.alpha.kubernetes.io/tolerate-unready-endpoints`, as the latter was deprecated in [Kubernetes release 1.11](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-1.11.md#kubernetes-111-release-notes).

Reviewer: This seems like a bug. Can you please enter it as an issue in the JHipster project?

https://github.com/jhipster/generator-jhipster/issues/new/choose

Author: I created https://github.com/jhipster/generator-jhipster/issues/18651

```text
Events:
  Type     Reason                Age                  From                                                                       Message
  ----     ------                ----                 ----                                                                       -------
  Normal   Provisioning          3m6s (x10 over 11m)  dobs.csi.digitalocean.com_master-do3_cebb3451-5eba-4805-956c-753ec148e2ea  External provisioner is provisioning volume for claim "demo/datadir-store-mongodb-2"
  Warning  ProvisioningFailed    3m5s (x10 over 11m)  dobs.csi.digitalocean.com_master-do3_cebb3451-5eba-4805-956c-753ec148e2ea  failed to provision volume with StorageClass "do-block-storage": rpc error: code = ResourceExhausted desc = volume limit (10) has been reached. Current number of volumes: 10. Please contact support.
  Normal   ExternalProvisioning  103s (x43 over 11m)  persistentvolume-controller                                                waiting for a volume to be created, either by external provisioner "dobs.csi.digitalocean.com" or manually created by system administrator
```

As instructed by the event message, I contacted DigitalOcean support and they fixed it.

> ### The gateway external IP

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Find your gateway's external IP and update redirect URIs
```
This is a little wordy, but I think it describes the section better.

```shell
kubectl describe service gateway -n demo
```

```text
Name:                     gateway
Namespace:                demo
Labels:                   app=gateway
Annotations:              kubernetes.digitalocean.com/load-balancer-id: e81d2b8c-6c28-430d-8ba8-6dab29a1ba76
                          service.beta.kubernetes.io/do-loadbalancer-certificate-id: bd0b1d03-0f90-449d-abbe-ac6a4026c133
Selector:                 app=gateway
Type:                     LoadBalancer
IP Family Policy:         SingleStack
IP Families:              IPv4
IP:                       10.245.47.51
IPs:                      10.245.47.51
LoadBalancer Ingress:     157.230.200.181
Port:                     http  8080/TCP
TargetPort:               8080/TCP
NodePort:                 http  31048/TCP
Endpoints:                10.244.1.42:8080
Session Affinity:         None
External Traffic Policy:  Cluster
```

Update the redirect URIs in Okta to allow the gateway address as a valid redirect. Run `okta login`, open the returned URL in your browser, and sign in to the Okta Admin Console. Go to the **Applications** section, find your application, and edit it.

> Navigate to `http://loadBalancerIngressIP:8080`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Navigate to `http://<load-balancer-ingress-ip>:8080`.
```

{% img blog/jhipster-digital-ocean/do-new-domain.png alt:"DigitalOcean new domain form" width:"500" %}{: .center-image }

Back in the _Forwarding rules_ page, check the generated certificate is selected, and forward the traffic to the droplet HTTP port where the gateway is running. Tick the checkbox **Create DNS records for all the new Let's Encrypt certificates** and then **Save** the forwarding settings.

{% img blog/jhipster-digital-ocean/do-forwarding.png alt:"DigitalOcean load balancer forwarding settings" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

Finally, in the SSL section of the settings, tick the checkbox **Redirect HTTP to HTTPS**.

{% img blog/jhipster-digital-ocean/do-ssl-redirect.png alt:"DigitalOcean load balancer ssl redirect settings" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

Once again, update the redirect URIs in Okta to allow the newly configured domain. Set up the URIs with `https://yourDomain` prefix.

Test the configuration by navigating to `http://yourDomain`. First, the load balancer should redirect to HTTPs, and then the gateway should redirect to the Okta sign-in page.

> ## Learn more about JHipster and cloud deployment

Reviewer: We might want to say "Kubernetes" instead of cloud deployment here, not sure. I'll flag for @havi.

And this was a brief walk-through for deploying JHipster to a DigitalOcean's managed Kubernetes cluster. Some important topics for production deployment were not covered in this post, to focus on DigitalOcean resource requirements in particular. Among them, external configuration storage with Spring Cloud Config and Git was not covered, secrets encryption both for the cloud configuration and Kubernetes configuration also was not covered. You can learn about these good practices in the first post of this cloud deployment series: [Kubernetes to the Cloud with Spring Boot and JHipster](/blog/2021/06/01/kubernetes-spring-boot-jhipster). Keep learning, and for more content on JHipster, check out the following links:

> - [Introducing Spring Native for JHipster: Serverless Full-Stack Made Easy](/blog/2022/03/03/spring-native-jhipster)

Reviewer: We should add Andrew's post to this list. https://developer.okta.com/blog/2022/05/05/kubernetes-microservices-azure

Author: Added

---
layout: blog_post
title: "JHipster Application Deployment to DigitalOcean's Kubernetes"
author: jimena-garbarino
by: contractor
communities: [devops,java]
description: "A step-by-step guide for JHipster deployment to DigitalOcean's cloud"
tags: []
tweets:
- ""
- ""
- ""
image:
type: conversion
---

Cloud adoption continues to increase rapidly and worldwide, and not only in the software industry. Every year more and more companies move their applications to the cloud. In the last JHipster community survey, in December 2021, users who participated expressed they value getting to production fast, thanks to JHipster, and requested more tutorials on deployment to cloud platforms. DigitalOcean is among the most popular "other" cloud vendors, according to some surveys. This post is a quick walk-through of the deployment of a JHipster microservices architecture to a Kubernetes cluster in DigitalOcean's cloud.

**This tutorial was created with the following frameworks and tools**:

> - [JHipster 7.6.0](https://www.jhipster.tech/installation/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [JHipster 7.8.1](https://www.jhipster.tech/installation/)
```
I'm QA-ing with this version.

> - [Java OpenJDK 11](https://jdk.java.net/java-se-ri/11)

Reviewer: FYI... it doesn't work with Java 17. Not sure if we should mention that.

```
Execution failed for task ':compileJava'.
> java.lang.IllegalAccessError: class org.gradle.internal.compiler.java.ClassNameCollector (in unnamed module
 @0x33ec151d) cannot access class com.sun.tools.javac.code.Symbol$TypeSymbol (in module jdk.compiler) 
because module jdk.compiler does not export com.sun.tools.javac.code to unnamed module @0x33ec151d
```

Author: Added a comment about that.

```bash
mkdir k8s
cd k8s
jhipster k8s
```

Choose the following options when prompted:

- Type of application: **Microservice application**
- Root directory: **../**
- Which applications? (select all)
- Set up monitoring? **No**
- Which applications with clustered databases? select **store**
- Admin password for JHipster Registry: (generate one)
- Kubernetes namespace: **demo**
- Docker repository name: (your docker hub username)
- Command to push Docker image: `docker push`
- Enable Istio? **No**
- Kubernetes service type? **LoadBalancer**
- Use dynamic storage provisioning? **Yes**
- Use a specific storage class? (leave empty)

**NOTE**: You can leave the Docker repository name blank for running Kubernetes locally, but a repository will be required for the cloud deployment, so go ahead and create a [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/) personal account, and the image pull configuration will be ready for both local and cloud deployments.

Build the `gateway`, `store` and `blog` services container images with Jib. For example, for the `gateway` service:

```bash
cd ../gateway

> ./gradlew bootJar -Pprod jib -Djib.to.image=<docker-repo-name>/gateway

Reviewer: I get an error here on my M1 MacBook Pro:

```
npm ERR! path /Users/mraible/Downloads/java-microservices-examples/reactive-jhipster/gateway/node_modules/puppeteer
npm ERR! command failed
npm ERR! command sh -c node install.js
npm ERR! The chromium binary is not available for arm64.
npm ERR! If you are on Ubuntu, you can install with:
npm ERR!
npm ERR!  sudo apt install chromium
npm ERR!
npm ERR!
npm ERR!  sudo apt install chromium-browser
npm ERR!
npm ERR! /Users/mraible/Downloads/java-microservices-examples/reactive-jhipster/gateway/node_modules/puppeteer/lib/cjs/puppeteer/node/BrowserFetcher.js:115
npm ERR!                     throw new Error();
npm ERR!                     ^
npm ERR!
npm ERR! Error
npm ERR!     at /Users/mraible/Downloads/java-microservices-examples/reactive-jhipster/gateway/node_modules/puppeteer/lib/cjs/puppeteer/node/BrowserFetcher.js:115:27
npm ERR!     at FSReqCallback.oncomplete (node:fs:198:21)

npm ERR! A complete log of this run can be found in:
npm ERR!     /Users/mraible/.npm/_logs/2022-05-13T18_35_55_087Z-debug-0.log
```

I tried `rm -rf package-lock.json node_modules`, but it didn't help. This looks related: `https://github.com/puppeteer/puppeteer/issues/7740`

Reviewer: I tried nuking the whole thing with `jhipster jdl reactive-ms.jdl --force` in the parent directory. It seems to update everything but also fails.

```
$ ./gradlew bootJar -Pprod jib -Djib.to.image=mraible/gateway

> Task :npm_install

up to date, audited 2029 packages in 2s

185 packages are looking for funding
  run `npm fund` for details

8 vulnerabilities (5 moderate, 3 high)

To address issues that do not require attention, run:
  npm audit fix

To address all issues (including breaking changes), run:
  npm audit fix --force

Run `npm audit` for details.

> Task :webapp FAILED

> gateway@0.0.0 webapp:prod
> npm run clean-www && npm run webapp:build:prod --

> gateway@0.0.0 clean-www
> rimraf build/resources/main/static/app/{src,build/}

> gateway@0.0.0 webapp:build:prod
> npm run webpack -- --mode production --env stats=minimal

> gateway@0.0.0 webpack
> webpack --config webpack/webpack.common.js "--mode" "production" "--env" "stats=minimal"

[webpack-cli] Error: Cannot find module 'acorn'
Require stack:
- /Users/mraible/Downloads/java-microservices-examples/reactive-jhipster/gateway/node_modules/acorn-import-assertions/lib/index.js
- /Users/mraible/Downloads/java-microservices-examples/reactive-jhipster/gateway/node_modules/webpack/lib/javascript/JavascriptParser.js
- /Users/mraible/Downloads/java-microservices-examples/reactive-jhipster/gateway/node_modules/webpack/lib/javascript/JavascriptModulesPlugin.js
- /Users/mraible/Downloads/java-microservices-examples/reactive-jhipster/gateway/node_modules/webpack/lib/WebpackOptionsApply.js
- /Users/mraible/Downloads/java-microservices-examples/reactive-jhipster/gateway/node_modules/webpack/lib/webpack.js
- /Users/mraible/Downloads/java-microservices-examples/reactive-jhipster/gateway/node_modules/webpack/lib/index.js
- /Users/mraible/Downloads/java-microservices-examples/reactive-jhipster/gateway/node_modules/webpack-cli/lib/webpack-cli.js
- /Users/mraible/Downloads/java-microservices-examples/reactive-jhipster/gateway/node_modules/webpack-cli/lib/bootstrap.js
- /Users/mraible/Downloads/java-microservices-examples/reactive-jhipster/gateway/node_modules/webpack-cli/bin/cli.js
- /Users/mraible/Downloads/java-microservices-examples/reactive-jhipster/gateway/node_modules/webpack/bin/webpack.js
    at Function.Module._resolveFilename (node:internal/modules/cjs/loader:933:15)
    at Function.Module._load (node:internal/modules/cjs/loader:778:27)
    at Module.require (node:internal/modules/cjs/loader:1005:19)
    at require (node:internal/modules/cjs/helpers:102:18)
    at Object.<anonymous> (/Users/mraible/Downloads/java-microservices-examples/reactive-jhipster/gateway/node_modules/acorn-import-assertions/lib/index.js:8:38)
    at Module._compile (node:internal/modules/cjs/loader:1105:14)
    at Object.Module._extensions..js (node:internal/modules/cjs/loader:1159:10)
    at Module.load (node:internal/modules/cjs/loader:981:32)
    at Function.Module._load (node:internal/modules/cjs/loader:822:12)
    at Module.require (node:internal/modules/cjs/loader:1005:19)
    at require (node:internal/modules/cjs/helpers:102:18)
    at Object.<anonymous> (/Users/mraible/Downloads/java-microservices-examples/reactive-jhipster/gateway/node_modules/webpack/lib/javascript/JavascriptParser.js:9:30)
    at Module._compile (node:internal/modules/cjs/loader:1105:14)
    at Object.Module._extensions..js (node:internal/modules/cjs/loader:1159:10)
    at Module.load (node:internal/modules/cjs/loader:981:32)
    at Function.Module._load (node:internal/modules/cjs/loader:822:12) {
  code: 'MODULE_NOT_FOUND',
  requireStack: [
    '/Users/mraible/Downloads/java-microservices-examples/reactive-jhipster/gateway/node_modules/acorn-import-assertions/lib/index.js',
    '/Users/mraible/Downloads/java-microservices-examples/reactive-jhipster/gateway/node_modules/webpack/lib/javascript/JavascriptParser.js',
    '/Users/mraible/Downloads/java-microservices-examples/reactive-jhipster/gateway/node_modules/webpack/lib/javascript/JavascriptModulesPlugin.js',
    '/Users/mraible/Downloads/java-microservices-examples/reactive-jhipster/gateway/node_modules/webpack/lib/WebpackOptionsApply.js',
    '/Users/mraible/Downloads/java-microservices-examples/reactive-jhipster/gateway/node_modules/webpack/lib/webpack.js',
    '/Users/mraible/Downloads/java-microservices-examples/reactive-jhipster/gateway/node_modules/webpack/lib/index.js',
    '/Users/mraible/Downloads/java-microservices-examples/reactive-jhipster/gateway/node_modules/webpack-cli/lib/webpack-cli.js',
    '/Users/mraible/Downloads/java-microservices-examples/reactive-jhipster/gateway/node_modules/webpack-cli/lib/bootstrap.js',
    '/Users/mraible/Downloads/java-microservices-examples/reactive-jhipster/gateway/node_modules/webpack-cli/bin/cli.js',
    '/Users/mraible/Downloads/java-microservices-examples/reactive-jhipster/gateway/node_modules/webpack/bin/webpack.js'
  ]
}

FAILURE: Build failed with an exception.
```

Reviewer: I tried `rm -rf blog docker-compose gateway k8s store` to start over. One thought I had is you could change the k8s section to use JDL. I tried appending this to the JDL.

```
deployment {
  deploymentType kubernetes
  appsFolders [gateway, blog, store]
  clusteredDbApps [store]
  serviceDiscoveryType eureka
  dockerRepositoryName "mraible"
}
```

When I tried to build the gateway, it fails:

```> Task :jib FAILED

FAILURE: Build failed with an exception.

* What went wrong:
Execution failed for task ':jib'.
> com.google.cloud.tools.jib.plugins.common.BuildStepsExecutionException: 
Build image failed, perhaps you should make sure your credentials for 
'registry-1.docker.io/mraible/gateway' are set up correctly. 
See https://github.com/GoogleContainerTools/jib/blob/master/docs/faq.md#what-should-i-do-when-the-registry-responds-with-unauthorized for help
```

I tried `docker login`, but it results in:

```
Error response from daemon: Get "https://registry-1.docker.io/v2/": 
unauthorized: please use personal access token to login
```

Author: It looks like I forgot to include the docker authentication step. Will look at this.

Reviewer: I tried disabling my 2FA on my Docker account and then `docker login` worked. It also prints the following message.

```
Logging in with your password grants your terminal complete access to your account.
For better security, log in with a limited-privilege personal access token. 
Learn more at https://docs.docker.com/go/access-tokens/
```

I went to https://docs.docker.com/docker-hub/access-tokens/ and created an access token, then re-enabled 2FA. Now the command with `-Djib.to.image=mraible/gateway` works! We might want to mention this.

Author: I added a comment about `docker login` and 2FA

Reviewer: FWIW, I had the JDL wrong. That's why I didn't see anything running with k9s. I was missing the `demo` namespace.

```
deployment {
  deploymentType kubernetes
  appsFolders [gateway, blog, store]
  clusteredDbApps [store]
  kubernetesNamespace demo
  serviceDiscoveryType eureka
  dockerRepositoryName "mraible"
}
```

Author: The JDL in the example [repo](https://github.com/oktadev/java-microservices-examples/blob/main/reactive-jhipster/reactive-ms.jdl) does not include kubernetes deployment, would you please share your JDL? Should I change the post to use a JDL instead of cloning the repo? At this moment the post only shows k8s generation, not the app generation.

Reviewer: The JDL is the same as what's in the repo + the code above. However, I don't think you need to use the JDL unless you want to re-generate everything from scratch, which is probably not necessary.

```

Check the images were uploaded to [DockerHub](https://hub.docker.com), and navigate to the project root folder in the terminal for the next step.

> ## Configure authentication with OpenID Connect and Okta

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Configure authentication with OpenID Connect
```

So the header doesn't wrap.

One more configuration step before running the architecture locally, let's configure Okta for authentication.

{% include setup/cli.md type="jhipster" %}

> The settings from the generated `.okta.env` must be added to the `k8s/registry-k8s/application-configmap.yml`:

Reviewer: If you use the JDL, this directory is named `kubernetes` instead of `k8s`.

Author: I renamed the k8s folder to `kubernetes`.

```yml
data:
  application.yml: |-
    ...
    spring:
      security:
        oauth2:
          client:
            provider:
              oidc:
                issuer-uri: https://<your-okta-domain>/oauth2/default
            registration:
              oidc:
                client-id: <client-id>
                client-secret: <client-secret>
```

> Enable the OIDC authentication in the `jhipster-registry` service by adding the `oauth2` profile in the `k8s/registry-k8s/jhipster-registry.yml` file:

Reviewer: Same name change as above if JDL.

```yml
- name: SPRING_PROFILES_ACTIVE
  value: prod,k8s,oauth2
```

## Run locally with Minikube

Install [Minikube](https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/docs/start/) and [`kubectl`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/).

For Minkube, you will need at least 2 CPUs. Start MiniKube with your number of CPUs:

```bash
cd k8s

> minikube --cpus <ncpu> start

Reviewer: I got these warnings on startup:

```
    ▪ You are trying to run amd64 binary on M1 system. Please consider running darwin/arm64 binary instead (Download at https://github.com/kubernetes/minikube/releases/download/v1.22.0/minikube-darwin-arm64.)
😄  minikube v1.22.0 on Darwin 12.3.1
🎉  minikube 1.25.2 is available! Download it: https://github.com/kubernetes/minikube/releases/tag/v1.25.2
```

I downloaded from `https://github.com/kubernetes/minikube/releases/download/v1.22.0/minikube-darwin-arm64` and ran the following to fix:

```
chmod +x minikube-darwin-arm64
mv minikube-darwin-arm64 /usr/local/bin/minikube
```

Reviewer: Looks much better now:

```
minikube --cpus 2 start
😄  minikube v1.22.0 on Darwin 12.3.1 (arm64)
✨  Using the docker driver based on existing profile
❗  You cannot change the CPUs for an existing minikube cluster. Please first delete the cluster.
👍  Starting control plane node minikube in cluster minikube
🚜  Pulling base image ...
🤷  docker "minikube" container is missing, will recreate.
🔥  Creating docker container (CPUs=8, Memory=16300MB)
```

Reviewer: On my Intel MacBook, I see:

```
😄  minikube v1.25.2 on Darwin 12.3.1
🆕  Kubernetes 1.23.3 is now available. If you would like to upgrade, specify: --kubernetes-version=v1.23.3
✨  Using the docker driver based on existing profile
❗  You cannot change the CPUs for an existing minikube cluster. Please first delete the cluster.
👍  Starting control plane node minikube in cluster minikube
🚜  Pulling base image ...
💾  Downloading Kubernetes v1.21.2 preload ...
    > preloaded-images-k8s-v17-v1...: 499.05 MiB / 499.05 MiB  100.00% 3.86 MiB
    > gcr.io/k8s-minikube/kicbase: 361.09 MiB / 361.09 MiB  100.00% 2.77 MiB p/
🤷  docker "minikube" container is missing, will recreate.
🔥  Creating docker container (CPUs=8, Memory=16300MB) ...
🐳  Preparing Kubernetes v1.21.2 on Docker 20.10.7 ...-
```

Author: Hi Matt, I don't understand. Should we change the link to minikube? Point to some specific download? I believe the link https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/docs/start/ should detect the os and architecture.

Reviewer: I tried again today with `minikube --cpus=max start` and this time everything starts but `store-mongodb`. 

<img width="1442" alt="Screen Shot 2022-05-17 at 18 40 51" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/17892/168886648-72e3550c-297f-4de4-92db-9c932a1c1542.png">

Maybe it's an issue with the M1. Unfortunately, I won't have my Intel Mac until Thursday. I'm traveling in Iceland this week.

Author: It seems your M1 OS ran out of threads. Don't panic, look at the beautiful Blue Lagoon!

```
Minikube will log the Kubernetes and Docker versions on start:

```

> Preparing Kubernetes v1.23.3 on Docker 20.10.12 ...

Reviewer: Mine says:

🐳  Preparing Kubernetes v1.21.2 on Docker 20.10.7 ...

```

For the `store-mongodb` deployment to work, the property `Service.spec.publishNotReadyAddresses` was required, instead of the annotation `service.alpha.kubernetes.io/tolerate-unready-endpoints`, as the latter was deprecated in [Kubernetes release 1.11](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-1.11.md#kubernetes-111-release-notes).

> In the k8s folder, edit `store-mongodb.yml` and add the `publishNotReadyAddresses: true` property to the `spec`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Edit `kubernetes/store-k8s/store-mongodb.yml` and add the `publishNotReadyAddresses: true` property to the `spec` key near the bottom of the file:
```

Author: Updated manually.

> ```yml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```yaml
...
```

# Headless service for DNS record
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: store-mongodb
  namespace: demo
spec:
  type: ClusterIP
  clusterIP: None
  publishNotReadyAddresses: true
  ports:
    - name: peer
      port: 27017
  selector:
    app: store-mongodb
```

Then deploy the application to Minikube, in the `k8s` directory, run:

```bash

> ./kubectl-apply.sh -f

Reviewer: On my Intel Mac, the PostgreSQL database fails to startup.

<img width="1442" alt="Screen Shot 2022-05-13 at 17 57 23" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/17892/168402598-cb556d0c-4f8e-45b3-92c0-e36e382c0bf5.png">

This makes it so the gateway can't startup.

<img width="1442" alt="Screen Shot 2022-05-13 at 17 58 33" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/17892/168402617-f17ddb96-8db4-448e-b302-435f554982be.png">

If you think it might help, I can update my original "Reactive Java Microservices" blog to use the latest JHipster.

Author: I will qa with JHipster 7.8.1 and see what issues come up.

Author: I generated the app with the repo jdl, Jhipster 7.8.1, and generated the k8s, updated config for okta oauth2 and set the store-mongodb publishNotReadyAddresses, and minikube worked.
Before a success run, I had network issues and minikube was unresponsive, minikube logs showed "error getting server version."

![jhipster-8](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2080632/168902598-a753fa73-d1b7-459f-8211-0ed599a3cb13.png)

Reviewer: OK, I'll just continue with the Digital Ocean part.

```
Now is a good time to install [k9s](https://k9scli.io/topics/install/), a terminal-based UI to interact with Kubernetes clusters. Then run k9s with:

```bash
k9s -n demo

> ```

Reviewer: I don't see anything here on my M1.

<img width="1442" alt="Screen Shot 2022-05-13 at 13 44 24" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/17892/168379139-c8c6b815-1b37-43dc-8286-6cce3345f2cd.png">

Author: I don't have an M1 to test, context and namespace look the same as my screenshot. I will qa with JHipster 7.8.1.

Reviewer: This was my fault because I didn't specify the "demo" namespace in the JDL. Once I redid it using your instructions, it works.

{% img blog/jhipster-digital-ocean/k9s-pods.png alt:"k9s UI" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

Check out the [commands list](https://k9scli.io/topics/commands/), some useful ones are:
- `:namespace`: show all available namespaces
- `:pods`: show all available pods
You can navigate the pods with `ENTER` and go back with `ESC` keys.

Set up port-forwarding for the JHipster Registry.

```bash

> kubectl port-forward svc/jhipster-registry -n demo 8761

Reviewer: I get:

```
Error from server (NotFound): namespaces "demo" not found
```

Reviewer: ```
$ kubectl get pods
```

Results in:

```
NAME                                  READY   STATUS                  RESTARTS   AGE
blog-676dd59b64-5srkb                 0/1     Running                 2          7m58s
blog-neo4j-0                          1/1     Running                 0          7m58s
gateway-66558d6fb9-6jlv4              0/1     Running                 2          7m59s
gateway-postgresql-74dbc8c987-4mpq2   1/1     Running                 0          7m59s
jhipster-registry-0                   1/1     Running                 0          7m59s
jhipster-registry-1                   1/1     Running                 0          7m51s
store-7c9f858ccc-z9b2p                0/1     Init:0/1                0          7m58s
store-mongodb-0                       0/1     Init:CrashLoopBackOff   6          7m58s
```

Author: So your pods are not in the namespace `demo` when using the M1?

Reviewer: Yes, you are correct. This is not an issue anymore.

```bash
./kubectl-apply.sh -f
```
Now is a good time to install [k9s](https://k9scli.io/topics/install/), a terminal-based UI to interact with Kubernetes clusters. Then run k9s with:

```bash
k9s -n demo
```

{% img blog/jhipster-digital-ocean/k9s-pods.png alt:"k9s UI" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

Check out the [commands list](https://k9scli.io/topics/commands/), some useful ones are:
- `:namespace`: show all available namespaces
- `:pods`: show all available pods
You can navigate the pods with `ENTER` and go back with `ESC` keys.

Set up port-forwarding for the JHipster Registry.

```bash
kubectl port-forward svc/jhipster-registry -n demo 8761
```

Navigate to `http://localhost:8761` and sign in with your Okta credentials. When the registry shows all services in green, Set up port-forwarding for the gateway as well.

```bash
kubectl port-forward svc/gateway -n demo 8080
```

Navigate to `http://localhost:8080`, sign in, and create some entities to verify everything is working fine.

After looking around, stop minikube before the cloud deployment:

```bash
minikube stop
```

## Deploy to DigitalOcean Kubernetes

> Now that the architecture works locally, let's proceed to the cloud deployment. First, create a [DigitalOcean](https://cloud.digitalocean.com/registrations/new) account, you can try their services with a free $100 credit that is available for 60 days.

Reviewer: I was asked to pay $5 with PayPal or enter a credit card. I did not see a $100 credit mentioned.

Author: I see I did not mention that. I got the 100 credit after paying the $5. I thought that if you enter the credit card you don't have to pay anything. Will update the link to https://www.digitalocean.com/try/free-trial-offer

Author: Updated the link and added a comment.

```bash
doctl k options sizes
```

**NOTE**: I tested the cluster with the higher size Intel nodes available for my account, `s-2vcpu-4gb-intel`, in an attempt to run the application in the default cluster configuration, a three-node cluster with a single node pool in the nyc1 region, using the latest Kubernetes version. As I started to see pods not running due to "insufficient CPU", I increased the number of nodes later. DigitalOcean's latest and default Kubernetes version at the moment of writing this post is 1.22.8.

Create the cluster with the following command line:

```bash
doctl k cluster create do1 -v --size s-2vcpu-4gb-intel
```
After creating a cluster, `doctl` adds a configuration context to kubectl and makes it active, so you can start monitoring your cluster right away with k9s. First, apply the resources configuration to the DigitalOcean cluster:

```bash
./kubectl-apply.sh -f
```

Monitor the deployment with k9s:

```bash
k9s -n demo
```

> {% img blog/jhipster-digital-ocean/k9s-do-cluster.png alt:"k9s user interface monitoring DigitalOcean Kubernetes" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

Reviewer: This screenshot shows the pods running for a week rather than a few minutes. I think it'd be better if they showed the pods working after 5-10 minutes rather than 5-10 days. These screenshots are likely "good enough," however, they do look like the top is chopped off.

Author: I updated the screenshot to show pods working after 5m. I could not fix the top, the text is right below the terminal window margin.

> Once you see the `jhipster-registry` pods are up, set up port forwarding again so you can also monitor the status of the services in the registry UI.

Reviewer: My `store-mongodb-1` is still pending after 6 minutes. It does have `publishNotReadyAddresses: true` in `store-k8s/store-mongodb.yml`.

<img width="1330" alt="Screen Shot 2022-05-18 at 11 26 11" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/17892/169028405-500cd793-0d92-44fc-9acb-c54241f0a511.png">

### Increase CPU

The three-node cluster might not provide enough CPU for this microservices architecture, so you might see `insufficient CPU` logs for some pods. You can get the pod events with `kubectl describe`:

```bash

> kubectl describe pod jhipster-registry-0 -n demo

Reviewer: I tried the following command and didn't see any issues.

```
kubectl describe pod jhipster-registry-0 -n demo | grep cpu
```

Reviewer: It also seems kinda strange that there are two instances of the JHipster Registry created. I believe @moksamedia ran into this as well. Maybe it's JHipster's default?

Author: In the jhipster-registry.yml I see "replicas: 2", it seems the default when using the k8s generator. The `kubectl describe` line above was just an example, during my DigitalOcean test, other pods failed with "insufficient cpu", it can be the registry or other service.

Reviewer: OK. Let's leave it as two then.

```
```text
Events:
  Type     Reason                  Age                   From                     Message
  ----     ------                  ----                  ----                     -------
  Normal   NotTriggerScaleUp       4m30s                 cluster-autoscaler       pod didn't trigger scale-up:
  Warning  FailedScheduling        69s (x3 over 95s)     default-scheduler        0/3 nodes are available: 3 Insufficient cpu.
```
Increase the number of nodes with `doctl`:

```bash
doctl k cluster node-pool update do1 do1-default-pool --count 4
```

### Increase Storage

> For the `store-mongodb` stateful set with 3 replicas, some of the pods did not run due to _unbound immediate PersistentVolumeClaims_. When inspecting the pod events, I found out there was a failure in volume provisioning:

Reviewer: How did you see these errors? I want to see if I'm experiencing the same thing?

Author: I realize I did not describe it well. Looking at my notes, with kubectl, I listed persistent volume claims `kubectl get pvc -n demo`, and then I did `kubectl describe pvc datadir-store-mongodb-2 -n demo` and saw the error in the events. I will clarify in the post.

Author: Added the commands to the post.

```text
Events:
  Type     Reason                Age                  From                                                                       Message
  ----     ------                ----                 ----                                                                       -------
  Normal   Provisioning          3m6s (x10 over 11m)  dobs.csi.digitalocean.com_master-do3_cebb3451-5eba-4805-956c-753ec148e2ea  External provisioner is provisioning volume for claim "demo/datadir-store-mongodb-2"
  Warning  ProvisioningFailed    3m5s (x10 over 11m)  dobs.csi.digitalocean.com_master-do3_cebb3451-5eba-4805-956c-753ec148e2ea  failed to provision volume with StorageClass "do-block-storage": rpc error: code = ResourceExhausted desc = volume limit (10) has been reached. Current number of volumes: 10. Please contact support.
  Normal   ExternalProvisioning  103s (x43 over 11m)  persistentvolume-controller                                                waiting for a volume to be created, either by external provisioner "dobs.csi.digitalocean.com" or manually created by system administrator
```

> As instructed by the event message, I contacted DigitalOcean support and they fixed it.

Reviewer: I created a ticket with DigitalOcean Support to try and get this fixed.

Reviewer: Support replied with the following:

> Upon checking your account I can see there is k8s cluster with name 'do1' and all the PV's are bound successfully to the cluster:
> ...
> As far I see the pod "store-mongodb-1" is in pending state because there is insufficient cpu on all the nodes for the pod to get deployed:
> ```
> % k get events -A
> NAMESPACE   LAST SEEN   TYPE      REASON              OBJECT                MESSAGE
> demo        97s         Warning   FailedScheduling    pod/store-mongodb-1   0/3 nodes are available: 3 Insufficient CPU.
> demo        3m50s       Normal    NotTriggerScaleUp   pod/store-mongodb-1   pod didn't trigger scale-up:
> ```
> I would suggest to increase the nodes in the cluster so that the pod can deploy without any problem. 

I tried the above command:

```
doctl k cluster node-pool update do1 do1-default-pool --count 4
```

And then restarted all my pods:

```
kubectl -n demo rollout restart deploy
```

After waiting several minutes, it doesn't seem like everything is starting.

<img width="1442" alt="Screen Shot 2022-05-19 at 12 17 53" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/17892/169291447-86f21c77-6839-418f-ac9e-a967df0d51e3.png">

Reviewer: I provided this information to Digital Ocean support. Here's what they said:

On describing your one of the pod 'store-8fb4df89f-b5mz4' I could see that you have configured resource limit. To isolate the issue can you please modify the value of resource limit or if possible please set the minimal required value for resource limit and let see issue is fixed or not! Please refer to the below link for more information.

https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-resources-containers/
 
If issue persist, Will it possible for you to use larger node.
 
The small node sizes are not intended for production workloads. These node sizes are there for experimentation and educational purposes. After taking into account the resource usage of the containerized infrastructure there is not a lot or resources left for production workloads to run in a stable or sustainable manner. 

Using many small nodes in your cluster can be an inefficient use of compute resources. Customers actually get more resources per dollar by using moderately sized nodes as each new node requires overhead of components such as cilium, DO node agents, and CSI containers. We recommend for customers to have at least 3 moderately sized nodes as opposed to say 6 very small nodes. This way the overhead of infrastructure takes less of your resources and leaves more for you to use. That being said customers should still maintain multiple nodes to increase the fault tolerance of their deployments.

Author: 4 nodes of size s-2vcpu-4gb-intel worked for me to solve "insufficient cpu" errors. After cpu was enough, I had the "unbound immediate PersistentVolumeClaims" error, preventing mongodb containers to start. I listed persistent volume claims `kubectl get pvc -n demo`, and then I did `kubectl describe pvc datadir-store-mongodb-2 -n demo` and saw the provisioning error in the events. I created the support ticket and they fixed it, they responded:

"I understand that your pods not getting created due to volume provision issues. Upon checking your cluster  I could see your volume limit was 10 and you already have 10 volumes in your account. I have gone ahead and increased your volume limit please check your pod, it should be created now."

What size are your nodes? I did not have the same issue I think
You don't need to restart the pods after adding nodes

Reviewer: I'll try it over from the beginning and see what I find.

### Find your gateway's external IP and update redirect URIs

Once all the pods are running, find the gateway external IP with the `kubectl describe` command:

```bash
kubectl describe service gateway -n demo
```

```text
Name:                     gateway
Namespace:                demo
Labels:                   app=gateway
Annotations:              kubernetes.digitalocean.com/load-balancer-id: e81d2b8c-6c28-430d-8ba8-6dab29a1ba76
                          service.beta.kubernetes.io/do-loadbalancer-certificate-id: bd0b1d03-0f90-449d-abbe-ac6a4026c133
Selector:                 app=gateway
Type:                     LoadBalancer
IP Family Policy:         SingleStack
IP Families:              IPv4
IP:                       10.245.47.51
IPs:                      10.245.47.51
LoadBalancer Ingress:     157.230.200.181
Port:                     http  8080/TCP
TargetPort:               8080/TCP
NodePort:                 http  31048/TCP
Endpoints:                10.244.1.42:8080
Session Affinity:         None
External Traffic Policy:  Cluster
```

> Update the redirect URIs in Okta to allow the gateway address as a valid redirect. Run `okta login`, open the returned URL in your browser, and sign in to the Okta Admin Console. Go to the **Applications** section, find your application, and edit it.

Reviewer: I think you might need to be more explicit here. I added `http://157.230.200.181` and didn't realize I needed to add `http://157.230.200.181:8080` so the first time I logged in, I got an error and had to adjust my redirect URIs after inspecting the value in my browser.

<img width="1129" alt="Screen Shot 2022-05-18 at 11 37 25" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/17892/169030033-aec057ea-2c9d-4526-aa64-62b52a17959d.png">

Author: Added the explicit URIs to the post.

Navigate to `http://<load-balancer-ingress-ip>:8080`.

### Inspect and manage cluster resources

> You can retrieve the cluster details with the following `doctl` commands:

Reviewer: I would add a `$ ` prefix to the commands below so it's easier to distinguish the commands from the output.

Author: Added prefix to all bash lines.

f59fc483-4ee4-4b59-be2c-bb017a932941    do1     nyc1      1.22.8-do.1    false           false               running    https://f59fc483-4ee4-4b59-be2c-bb017a932941.k8s.ondigitalocean.com    137.184.48.14    10.244.0.0/16     10.245.0.0/16     k8s,k8s:f59fc483-4ee4-4b59-be2c-bb017a932941    2022-05-03 20:40:01 +0000 UTC    2022-05-07 00:01:41 +0000 UTC    do1-default-pool
```
```bash
 doctl k cluster list-associated-resources do1
```
```
Volumes                                                                                                                                                                                       Volume Snapshots    Load Balancers
[a33dbaba-cb22-11ec-9383-0a58ac145375 a6e18809-cb22-11ec-8723-0a58ac14468c 65fb3778-cb23-11ec-9383-0a58ac145375 ac106c49-cb22-11ec-9383-0a58ac145375 c7122288-cb22-11ec-bd08-0a58ac14467d]    []                  [8ebbcbf2-1e67-46f5-b38a-eddae17f00f3]

> ```

Reviewer: Why are these two commands useful?

Author: `cluster get` is just info, `cluster list-associated-resources` shows resources that are not deleted with the cluster and generate charges. That is mentioned some lines ahead.

Author: Removed the first command, and added a comment about the second.

> Unfortunately, there is no way to pause the cluster. According to DigitalOcean, you can power a droplet off, but this does not halt the billing. Billing costs can be reduced by taking a snapshot of the droplet and then destroying it. The snapshot cost is less expensive.

Reviewer: I think we should move this section to below the HTTPS part since that's a continuation of the tutorial and if you delete your cluster, you probably can't setup HTTPS.

Author: I moved cluster delete after the https section as suggested.

You can create the certificate and the domain at the same time, in the DigitalOcean control panel, when you set up the load balancer HTTPs forwarding.

DigitalOcean load balancers support two main configurations for encrypted web traffic:

- SSL termination: decrypts SSL requests at the load balancer and sends them unencrypted to the backend at the Droplets' private IP address. The slower and CPU-intensive work of decryption is performed at the load balancer, and certificate management is simplified. The traffic between the load balancer and the backend is secured by routing over the VPC network, but data is readable inside the private network.
- SSL passthrough: sends the encrypted SSL requests directly to the backend at the Droplets' private IP address, traffic between the load balancer and the backend is secured. Every backend server must have the certificate, and client information contained in `X-forwarded-*` headers might be lost.

Taking advantage of the simplified certificate management, in the following steps SSL termination will be configured, through the DigitalOcean control panel.

> Login to your DigitalOcean account, and in the left menu choose **Kubernetes**. Then choose your cluster, and on the cluster page, choose **Resources**. In the _LOAD BALANCERS_ list, choose the single load balancer that must have been created. On the load balancer page, choose the **Settings** tab. Click **Edit** in the _Forwarding Rules_. Add a forwarding rule for HTTPS in port 443, and in the certificate drop-down, choose **New certificate**.

Reviewer: How do I log in? Do I just go to https://www.digitalocean.com/ and log in? This worked, but maybe we should link to `https://cloud.digitalocean.com/projects` here?

Reviewer: For the forwarding rule, what are the protocol and port settings? Should I add a rule or replace the existing one?

<img width="928" alt="Screen Shot 2022-05-18 at 11 45 17" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/17892/169031390-14ff428e-bc6f-4fce-8d33-18c3f9ac473c.png">

Reviewer: I don't see a certificate drop-down. Where should I see this?

Author: I think if you set in the left HTTPS and 443 the drop down should be enabled
![do-forwarding](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2080632/169144471-767c22df-f039-4b07-b22c-6ffd11c9531f.png)

Reviewer: Yep. I see it now. Is it possible to configure HTTPS with something like https://nip.io like I do in my [Kubernetes to the Cloud post](https://developer.okta.com/blog/2021/06/01/kubernetes-spring-boot-jhipster#add-https-to-your-reactive-gateway)? I found that easier than using one of my custom domain names. If not, maybe we should mention it?

Author: I changed the DO link, to send the reader to the 60 day trial. I added a comment on why nip.io cannot be used.

    app: store-mongodb
```

Then deploy the application to Minikube, in the `kubernetes` directory, run:

```bash
$ ./kubectl-apply.sh -f
```
Now is a good time to install [k9s](https://k9scli.io/topics/install/), a terminal-based UI to interact with Kubernetes clusters. Then run k9s with:

```bash
$ k9s -n demo
```

{% img blog/jhipster-digital-ocean/k9s-pods.png alt:"k9s UI" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

Check out the [commands list](https://k9scli.io/topics/commands/), some useful ones are:
- `:namespace`: show all available namespaces
- `:pods`: show all available pods
You can navigate the pods with `ENTER` and go back with `ESC` keys.

Set up port-forwarding for the JHipster Registry.

```bash
$ kubectl port-forward svc/jhipster-registry -n demo 8761
```

Navigate to `http://localhost:8761` and sign in with your Okta credentials. When the registry shows all services in green, Set up port-forwarding for the gateway as well.

```bash
$ kubectl port-forward svc/gateway -n demo 8080
```

Navigate to `http://localhost:8080`, sign in, and create some entities to verify everything is working fine.

After looking around, stop minikube before the cloud deployment:

```bash

> $ minikube stop

Reviewer: I just tried this whole section with my MacBook Pro that's Intel and everything worked. I did have to wait for 10 minutes or so for everything to startup. You might recommend `minikube delete` here too since that helps make a clean slate for future tutorials.

Author: Added the recommendation.

```bash
$ doctl k options sizes
```

**NOTE**: I tested the cluster with the higher size Intel nodes available for my account, `s-2vcpu-4gb-intel`, in an attempt to run the application in the default cluster configuration, a three-node cluster with a single node pool in the nyc1 region, using the latest Kubernetes version. As I started to see pods not running due to "insufficient CPU", I increased the number of nodes later. DigitalOcean's latest and default Kubernetes version at the moment of writing this post is 1.22.8.

Create the cluster with the following command line:

```bash
$ doctl k cluster create do1 -v --size s-2vcpu-4gb-intel
```
After creating a cluster, `doctl` adds a configuration context to kubectl and makes it active, so you can start monitoring your cluster right away with k9s. First, apply the resources configuration to the DigitalOcean cluster:

```bash
$ ./kubectl-apply.sh -f
```

Monitor the deployment with k9s:

```bash
$ k9s -n demo
```

> {% img blog/jhipster-digital-ocean/k9s-do-cluster.png alt:"k9s user interface monitoring DigitalOcean Kubernetes" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

Reviewer: Thanks for updating the screenshot so I can compare the times with mine. I don't see a mongodb-2 pod and my mongodb-1 won't start.

<img width="1330" alt="Screen Shot 2022-05-20 at 15 48 02" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/17892/169617008-9372b428-969e-4ee8-b616-9ae870284713.png">

It'd be nice to figure out a way to create a cluster and adjust it as needed so everything starts successfully the first time.

Reviewer: As a test, I tried the following:

```
doctl k cluster create do1 -v --size s-4vcpu-8gb-intel
```

This seems to solve all my problems.

<img width="1442" alt="Screen Shot 2022-05-20 at 16 00 55" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/17892/169618088-45764aa5-7de1-4657-af91-e0124826891d.png">

If you make this change, I think you can remove the Increase CPU and Increase Storage sections. Or, reword them to say, "when I first tried this with XXX size".

Author: I don't have that node size as an option. The biggest node I can use is s-2vcpu-4gb-intel. What kind of account do you have in DO? I will update the post to create the cluster with 5 nodes from the beginning, and increase cpu and storage will be a note.

Author: I changed the cluster create command. I had to submit a support ticket requesting higher node sizes for my account. I moved increase cpu and storage to a notes section.

{% img blog/jhipster-digital-ocean/do-new-domain.png alt:"DigitalOcean new domain form" width:"500" %}{: .center-image }

Back in the _Forwarding rules_ page, check the generated certificate is selected, and forward the traffic to the droplet HTTP port where the gateway is running. Tick the checkbox **Create DNS records for all the new Let's Encrypt certificates** and then **Save** the forwarding settings.

{% img blog/jhipster-digital-ocean/do-forwarding.png alt:"DigitalOcean load balancer forwarding settings" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

Finally, in the SSL section of the settings, tick the checkbox **Redirect HTTP to HTTPS**.

{% img blog/jhipster-digital-ocean/do-ssl-redirect.png alt:"DigitalOcean load balancer ssl redirect settings" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

Once again, update the redirect URIs in Okta to allow the newly configured domain. Add the following redirect URIs:
- Sign-in redirect URIs: `http://<your-domain>:8080/login/oauth2/code/oidc`

> - Sign-out redirect URIs: `http://<your-domain>:8080`

Reviewer: Should these use `https`?

Author: Right, fixed.

---
layout: blog_post
title: "JHipster Application Deployment to DigitalOcean's Kubernetes"
author: jimena-garbarino
by: contractor
communities: [devops,java]
description: "A step-by-step guide for JHipster deployment to DigitalOcean's cloud"
tags: []
tweets:
- ""
- ""
- ""
image:
type: conversion
---

> Cloud adoption continues to increase rapidly and worldwide, and not only in the software industry. Every year more and more companies move their applications to the cloud. In the last JHipster community survey, in December 2021, users who participated expressed they value getting to production fast, thanks to JHipster, and requested more tutorials on deployment to cloud platforms. DigitalOcean is among the most popular "other" cloud vendors, according to some surveys. This post is a quick walk-through of the deployment of a JHipster microservices architecture to a Kubernetes cluster in DigitalOcean's cloud.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Cloud adoption continues to increase rapidly worldwide, and not only in the software industry. Every year more and more companies move their applications to the cloud. In the last JHipster community survey, from December 2021, participants valued JHipster's ability to get them to production faster, and requested more tutorials on deployment to cloud platforms. DigitalOcean is among the most popular "other" cloud vendors, according to some surveys. This post is a quick walk-through of the deployment of a JHipster microservices architecture to a Kubernetes cluster in DigitalOcean's cloud.
```
fine-tuning for clarity/conciseness

**This tutorial was created with the following frameworks and tools**:
- [JHipster 7.8.1](https://www.jhipster.tech/installation/)
- [Java OpenJDK 11](https://jdk.java.net/java-se-ri/11)
- [Okta CLI 0.10.0](https://cli.okta.com)
- [doctl 1.72.0-release](https://docs.digitalocean.com/reference/doctl/)
- [kubectl 1.23](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/#kubectl)
- [minikube v1.25.2](https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/docs/start/)
- [k9s v0.25.18](https://k9scli.io/topics/install/)
- [Docker 20.10.12](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/)

**Table of Contents**{: .hide }
* Table of Contents
{:toc}

## About DigitalOcean

> DigitalOcean is a cloud services company founded in 2011 by brothers Ben and Moisey Uretsky. The headquarters are in New York City in the United States, and they also have offices in Massachusetts and Bangalore. Last March 2022, it reached its IPO (Initial Public Offering) and some press articles describe it as the cloud services provider for small businesses: "Cloud services for the Little Guy".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
DigitalOcean is a cloud services company founded in 2011 by brothers Ben and Moisey Uretsky. Their headquarters are in New York City in the United States, and they also have offices in Massachusetts and Bangalore. Last March 2022, DigitalOcean reached its IPO (Initial Public Offering), and some press articles describe it as the cloud services provider for small businesses: "Cloud services for the Little Guy".
```
smoother flow

{% img blog/jhipster-digital-ocean/do-logo.png alt:"DigitalOcean Logo" width:"200" %}{: .center-image }

DigitalOcean Kubernetes (DOKS) is a managed Kubernetes service that lets you deploy Kubernetes clusters without the complexities of handling the control pane and containerized infrastructure. Clusters are compatible with standard Kubernetes toolchains and integrate natively with DigitalOcean load balancers and block storage volumes. DOKS offers fast provisioning and deployment, and provides a free high-availability control pane, for reliability management. It can also provide a Cluster Autoscaler that automatically adjusts the size of the cluster by adding or removing nodes based on the cluster's capacity to schedule pods. Pricing for Kubernetes workloads is based on resources required by the cluster, droplets, block storage, and load balancers.

> The company publishes its data center [certification reports](https://www.digitalocean.com/trust/certification-reports) on its web, and all the data centers have approved two or more of the following certifications: SOC (System and Organization Controls) 1 Type II, SOC 2 Type II, SOC 3 Type II, ISO/IEC 27001:2013 (Security techniques - Information security management systems). PCI-DSS (Payment Card Industry - Data Security Standard) has been certified in all data centers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The company publishes its data center [certification reports](https://www.digitalocean.com/trust/certification-reports) on its website, and all the data centers have approved two or more of the following certifications: SOC (System and Organization Controls) 1 Type II, SOC 2 Type II, SOC 3 Type II, and ISO/IEC 27001:2013 (Security techniques - Information security management systems). PCI-DSS (Payment Card Industry - Data Security Standard) has been certified in all data centers.
```
typo

- Kubernetes namespace: **demo**
- Docker repository name: (your docker hub username)
- Command to push Docker image: `docker push`
- Enable Istio? **No**
- Kubernetes service type? **LoadBalancer**
- Use dynamic storage provisioning? **Yes**
- Use a specific storage class? (leave empty)

**NOTE**: You can leave the Docker repository name blank for running Kubernetes locally, but a repository will be required for the cloud deployment, so go ahead and create a [DockerHub](https://hub.docker.com/) personal account, and the image pull configuration will be ready for both local and cloud deployments.

Build the `gateway`, `store` and `blog` services container images with Jib. As Jib will push the images to DockerHub, you first need to do a `docker login`.

```bash
docker login
```
If you have two-factor authentication enabled, you must generate a token and use it as the password for the login. In the Docker web, go to the user menu and choose **Account Settings**. Then in the left menu choose **Security** and **New Access Token**.

For example, for building the `gateway` service image:

```bash
cd ../gateway
./gradlew bootJar -Pprod jib -Djib.to.image=<docker-repo-name>/gateway
```

> **IMPORTANT NOTE**: Unfortunately the application example does not build with Java 17 at the moment of writing this post.

Reviewer 2: Should we remind them here what Java build *is* supported?

Author: Added a remider.

> Check the images were uploaded to [DockerHub](https://hub.docker.com), and navigate to the project root folder in the terminal for the next step.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Check that the images were uploaded to [DockerHub](https://hub.docker.com), and navigate to the project root folder in the terminal for the next step.
```
idiomatic

## Configure authentication with OpenID Connect

One more configuration step before running the architecture locally, let's configure Okta for authentication.

{% include setup/cli.md type="jhipster" %}

The settings from the generated `.okta.env` must be added to the `kubernetes/registry-k8s/application-configmap.yml`:

```yml
data:
  application.yml: |-
    ...
    spring:
      security:
        oauth2:
          client:
            provider:
              oidc:
                issuer-uri: https://<your-okta-domain>/oauth2/default
            registration:
              oidc:
                client-id: <client-id>
                client-secret: <client-secret>
```

Enable the OIDC authentication in the `jhipster-registry` service by adding the `oauth2` profile in the `kubernetes/registry-k8s/jhipster-registry.yml` file:

```yml
- name: SPRING_PROFILES_ACTIVE
  value: prod,k8s,oauth2
```

> ## Run locally with Minikube

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Run locally with minikube
```

> Install [Minikube](https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/docs/start/) and [`kubectl`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Install [minikube](https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/docs/start/) and [`kubectl`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/).
```

> For Minkube, you will need at least 2 CPUs. Start MiniKube with your number of CPUs:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For minikube, you will need at least 2 CPUs. Start MiniKube with your number of CPUs:
```
their own website uses lowercase: minikube

> For minikube, you will need at least 2 CPUs. Start MiniKube with your number of CPUs:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For minikube, you will need at least 2 CPUs. Start minikube with your number of CPUs:
```
product name

```bash
cd kubernetes
minikube --cpus <ncpu> start
```

> Minikube will log the Kubernetes and Docker versions on start:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
minikube will log the Kubernetes and Docker versions on start:
```

```
Preparing Kubernetes v1.23.3 on Docker 20.10.12 ...
```

For the `store-mongodb` deployment to work, the property `Service.spec.publishNotReadyAddresses` was required, instead of the annotation `service.alpha.kubernetes.io/tolerate-unready-endpoints`, as the latter was deprecated in [Kubernetes release 1.11](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-1.11.md#kubernetes-111-release-notes).

Edit `kubernetes/store-k8s/store-mongodb.yml` and add the `publishNotReadyAddresses: true` property to the `spec` key near the bottom of the file:

```yaml
...
# Headless service for DNS record
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: store-mongodb
  namespace: demo
spec:
  type: ClusterIP
  clusterIP: None
  publishNotReadyAddresses: true
  ports:
    - name: peer
      port: 27017
  selector:
    app: store-mongodb
```

> Then deploy the application to Minikube, in the `kubernetes` directory, run:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then deploy the application to minikube, in the `kubernetes` directory, run:
```

> Then deploy the application to minikube, in the `kubernetes` directory, run:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then deploy the application to minikube.  In the `kubernetes` directory, run:
```
2 sentences for clarity

Most of the cluster tasks, if not all, can be accomplished using [doctl](https://github.com/digitalocean/doctl#installing-doctl), the command-line interface (CLI) for the DigitalOcean API. Install the tool, and perform the authentication with DigitalOcean:

```bash
doctl auth init
```
You will be prompted to enter the DigitalOcean access token that you can generate in the DigitalOcean control panel. Sign in, and then in the left menu go to **API**, click **Generate New Token**. Enter a token name, and click **Generate Token**. Copy the new token from the **Tokens/Keys** table.

{% img blog/jhipster-digital-ocean/do-control-panel-token.png alt:"DigitalOcean Control Panel for Token Create" width:"500" %}{: .center-image }

You can find a detailed list of pricing for cluster resources at [DigitalOcean](https://docs.digitalocean.com/products/kubernetes/),  and with `doctl` you can quickly retrieve a list of node size options available for your account:

```bash
doctl k options sizes
```

Create the cluster with the following command line:

```bash
doctl k cluster create do1 -v --size s-4vcpu-8gb-intel

> ```

Reviewer: @indiepopart Do you see this option with the free trial? If not, maybe we should remove that signup link or ask DO to add this tier to the trial for JHipster. I don't think I used it and I've been billed about $8 so far.

Author: I had to submit a ticket to support to see the option s-4vcpu-8gb-intel, and they told me new users have limited node size, and they enabled all node sizes. I am not sure they can selectively enable node sizes depending on the framework. I will replace the free tial link, set the standard registration link back.

Author: Updated the registration link.

After creating a cluster, `doctl` adds a configuration context to kubectl and makes it active, so you can start monitoring your cluster right away with k9s. First, apply the resources configuration to the DigitalOcean cluster:

```bash
./kubectl-apply.sh -f
```

Monitor the deployment with k9s:

```bash
k9s -n demo
```

{% img blog/jhipster-digital-ocean/k9s-do-cluster.png alt:"k9s user interface monitoring DigitalOcean Kubernetes" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

Once you see the `jhipster-registry` pods are up, set up port forwarding again so you can also monitor the status of the services in the registry UI.

> ### Notes on DigitalOcean's nodes sizes and volumes

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Notes on DigitalOcean's node sizes and volumes
```
single works better here

Deploying to a Kubernetes cluster on DigitalOcean's cloud can be tricky if you don't specify enough capacity from the start.

> At first, I tested the cluster with the higher size Intel nodes available for my account, `s-2vcpu-4gb-intel`, in an attempt to run the application in the default cluster configuration, a three-node cluster with a single node pool in the nyc1 region, using the latest Kubernetes version. As I started to see pods not running due to `insufficient CPU`, I increased the number of nodes later. DigitalOcean's latest and default Kubernetes version at the moment of writing this post is 1.22.8.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
At first, I tested the cluster with the higher size Intel nodes available for my account, `s-2vcpu-4gb-intel`. It was my attempt to run the application in the default cluster configuration, a three-node cluster with a single node pool in the nyc1 region, using the latest Kubernetes version. As I started to see pods not running due to `insufficient CPU`, I increased the number of nodes later. DigitalOcean's latest and default Kubernetes version at the moment of writing this post is 1.22.8.
```
Making a long sentence into 2 sentences for clarity.

If you need to find out the reason why a pod is not running, you can get the pod events with `kubectl describe`, for example, for the `jhipster-registry-0` pod:

```bash
kubectl describe pod jhipster-registry-0 -n demo
```

> The output of the command, in the events section, for a pod that failed due to insufficient cpu, looks like the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The output of the command, in the events section, for a pod that has failed due to insufficient cpu, looks like the following:
```
past perfect - a more nuanced past tense that suggests it's one in a series of past actions...

```text
Events:
  Type     Reason                Age                  From                                                                       Message
  ----     ------                ----                 ----                                                                       -------
  Normal   Provisioning          3m6s (x10 over 11m)  dobs.csi.digitalocean.com_master-do3_cebb3451-5eba-4805-956c-753ec148e2ea  External provisioner is provisioning volume for claim "demo/datadir-store-mongodb-2"
  Warning  ProvisioningFailed    3m5s (x10 over 11m)  dobs.csi.digitalocean.com_master-do3_cebb3451-5eba-4805-956c-753ec148e2ea  failed to provision volume with StorageClass "do-block-storage": rpc error: code = ResourceExhausted desc = volume limit (10) has been reached. Current number of volumes: 10. Please contact support.
  Normal   ExternalProvisioning  103s (x43 over 11m)  persistentvolume-controller                                                waiting for a volume to be created, either by external provisioner "dobs.csi.digitalocean.com" or manually created by system administrator
```

As instructed by the event message, I contacted DigitalOcean support and they fixed it.

> Finally, I had to open a second support ticket requesting higher node sizes, so I could use the size `s-4vcpu-8gb-intel`. Not all the size options where available for my account when I signed up.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Finally, I had to open a second support ticket requesting higher node sizes, so I could use the size `s-4vcpu-8gb-intel`. Not all the size options were available for my account when I signed up.
```
typo

### Find your gateway's external IP and update redirect URIs

Once all the pods are running, find the gateway external IP with the `kubectl describe` command:

```bash
kubectl describe service gateway -n demo
```

> The output will look like:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The output will look like this:
```
finished sentence

```text
Name:                     gateway
Namespace:                demo
Labels:                   app=gateway
Annotations:              kubernetes.digitalocean.com/load-balancer-id: e81d2b8c-6c28-430d-8ba8-6dab29a1ba76
                          service.beta.kubernetes.io/do-loadbalancer-certificate-id: bd0b1d03-0f90-449d-abbe-ac6a4026c133
Selector:                 app=gateway
Type:                     LoadBalancer
IP Family Policy:         SingleStack
IP Families:              IPv4
IP:                       10.245.47.51
IPs:                      10.245.47.51
LoadBalancer Ingress:     157.230.200.181
Port:                     http  8080/TCP
TargetPort:               8080/TCP
NodePort:                 http  31048/TCP
Endpoints:                10.244.1.42:8080
Session Affinity:         None
External Traffic Policy:  Cluster
```

> Update the redirect URIs in Okta to allow the gateway address as a valid redirect. Run `okta login`, open the returned URL in your browser, and sign in to the Okta Admin Console. Go to the **Applications** section, find your application, edit and add:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Update the redirect URIs in Okta to allow the gateway address as a valid redirect. Run `okta login`, open the returned URL in your browser, and sign in to the Okta Admin Console. Go to the **Applications** section, find your application, edit, and add:
```
nitpicky serial comma

- Sign-in redirect URIs: `http://<load-balancer-ingress-ip>:8080/login/oauth2/code/oidc`
- Sign-out redirect URIs: `http://<load-balancer-ingress-ip>:8080`

Navigate to `http://<load-balancer-ingress-ip>:8080`.

## Secure web traffic with HTTPS

> As the gateway service acts as the application front-end, in the k8s descriptors it is defined as a `LoadBalancer` service type. This exposes the service externally using the cloud provider's load balancer. DigitalOcean load balancers are a fully-managed, highly available network load balancing service. Load balancers distribute traffic to groups of droplets, which decouples the overall health of a backend service from the health of a single server to ensure that your services stay online.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since the gateway service acts as the application front-end, in the k8s descriptors it is defined as a `LoadBalancer` service type. This exposes the service externally using the cloud provider's load balancer. DigitalOcean load balancers are a fully-managed, highly available network load-balancing service. Load balancers distribute traffic to groups of droplets, which decouples the overall health of a backend service from the health of a single server to ensure that your services stay online.
```
avoids repetition in the opening

> The standard practice is to secure web traffic to your application with HTTPs. For traffic encryption, you need a TLS (SSL) certificate. DigitalOcean also provides automatic certificate creation and renewal if you manage your domain with DigitalOcean's DNS, which is free. But domain registration is not provided.  To use DigitalOcean's DNS, you need to register a domain name with a registrar and update your domain's NS records to point to DigitalOcean's name servers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The standard practice is to secure web traffic to your application with HTTPS. For traffic encryption, you need a TLS (SSL) certificate. DigitalOcean also provides automatic certificate creation and renewal if you manage your domain with DigitalOcean's DNS, which is free. But domain registration is not provided.  To use DigitalOcean's DNS, you need to register a domain name with a registrar and update your domain's NS records to point to DigitalOcean's name servers.
```

Then, for using DigitalOcean's managed domain and certificate, you must [delegate the domain](https://docs.digitalocean.com/tutorials/dns-registrars/), updating NS records in the registrar. Because of this requirement, you cannot use free DNS services where you cannot set up NS records, like nip.io.

**IMPORTANT NOTE**: Before changing the registrar NS records (the nameservers), add your domain to DigitalOcean, to minimize service disruptions.

> You can create the certificate and the domain at the same time, in the DigitalOcean control panel, when you set up the load balancer HTTPs forwarding.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can create the certificate and the domain at the same time in the DigitalOcean control panel, when you set up the load balancer HTTPS forwarding.
```

DigitalOcean load balancers support two main configurations for encrypted web traffic:

> - SSL termination: decrypts SSL requests at the load balancer and sends them unencrypted to the backend at the Droplets' private IP address. The slower and CPU-intensive work of decryption is performed at the load balancer, and certificate management is simplified. The traffic between the load balancer and the backend is secured by routing over the VPC network, but data is readable inside the private network.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **SSL termination:** decrypts SSL requests at the load balancer and sends them unencrypted to the backend at the Droplets' private IP address. The slower and CPU-intensive work of decryption is performed at the load balancer, and certificate management is simplified. The traffic between the load balancer and the backend is secured by routing over the VPC network, but data is readable inside the private network.
```
bolding to increase scannability

> - SSL passthrough: sends the encrypted SSL requests directly to the backend at the Droplets' private IP address, traffic between the load balancer and the backend is secured. Every backend server must have the certificate, and client information contained in `X-forwarded-*` headers might be lost.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **SSL passthrough:** sends the encrypted SSL requests directly to the backend at the Droplets' private IP address, traffic between the load balancer and the backend is secured. Every backend server must have the certificate, and client information contained in `X-forwarded-*` headers might be lost.
```
bolding to increase scannability

> Taking advantage of the simplified certificate management, in the following steps SSL termination will be configured, through the DigitalOcean control panel.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Taking advantage of the simplified certificate management, SSL termination will be configured in the following steps through the DigitalOcean control panel.
```
syntax, clarity

> Login to your DigitalOcean account, and in the left menu choose **Kubernetes**. Then choose your cluster, and on the cluster page, choose **Resources**. In the _LOAD BALANCERS_ list, choose the single load balancer that must have been created. On the load balancer page, choose the **Settings** tab. Click **Edit** in the _Forwarding Rules_. Add a forwarding rule for HTTPS in port 443, and in the certificate drop-down, choose **New certificate**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Log in to your DigitalOcean account, and in the left menu choose **Kubernetes**. Then choose your cluster, and on the cluster page, choose **Resources**. In the _LOAD BALANCERS_ list, choose the single load balancer that must have been created. On the load balancer page, choose the **Settings** tab. Click **Edit** in the _Forwarding Rules_. Add a forwarding rule for HTTPS in port 443, and in the certificate drop-down, choose **New certificate**.
```
two words as a verb

{% img blog/jhipster-digital-ocean/do-new-certificate.png alt:"DigitalOcean new certificate form" width:"500" %}{: .center-image }

In the **New Certificate** form, choose the **Use Let's Encrypt** tab, and then in the domain box, choose **Add new domain**. Then enter your domain name, and list other subdomains to include. Add a name for the certificate and click **Generate Certificate**.

{% img blog/jhipster-digital-ocean/do-new-domain.png alt:"DigitalOcean new domain form" width:"500" %}{: .center-image }

> Back in the _Forwarding rules_ page, check the generated certificate is selected, and forward the traffic to the droplet HTTP port where the gateway is running. Tick the checkbox **Create DNS records for all the new Let's Encrypt certificates** and then **Save** the forwarding settings.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Back in the _Forwarding rules_ page, check that the generated certificate is selected, and forward the traffic to the droplet HTTP port where the gateway is running. Tick the checkbox **Create DNS records for all the new Let's Encrypt certificates** and then **Save** the forwarding settings.
```

[a33dbaba-cb22-11ec-9383-0a58ac145375 a6e18809-cb22-11ec-8723-0a58ac14468c 65fb3778-cb23-11ec-9383-0a58ac145375 ac106c49-cb22-11ec-9383-0a58ac145375 c7122288-cb22-11ec-bd08-0a58ac14467d]    []                  [8ebbcbf2-1e67-46f5-b38a-eddae17f00f3]
```

Unfortunately, there is no way to pause the cluster. According to DigitalOcean, you can power a droplet off, but this does not halt the billing. Billing costs can be reduced by taking a snapshot of the droplet and then destroying it. The snapshot cost is less expensive.

While testing the platform, you can delete the cluster in between sessions, to avoid spending the trial credit while not actively working on it.

```bash
doctl k cluster delete do1
```

Volumes provisioned to the cluster are not deleted with the cluster, and charges are generated hourly. You can delete volumes using the control panel or with the following commands:

```bash
doctl compute volume list
doctl compute volume delete <volume-id>
```

The load balancers are not deleted with the cluster either:

```bash
doctl compute load-balancer list
doctl compute load-balancer delete <load-balancer-id>
```

> During registration, a project must have been created, allowing to organize resources. You can list all the resources associated with a project with the following command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
During registration, a project must have been created, allowing you to organize resources. You can list all the resources associated with a project with the following command:
```
allowing needs an object - allowing "you" or allowing "the project"

```bash
doctl projects list
doctl projects resources list <project-id>
```

## Learn more about JHipster and cloud deployment

> And this was a brief walk-through for deploying JHipster to a DigitalOcean's managed Kubernetes cluster. Some important topics for production deployment were not covered in this post, to focus on DigitalOcean resource requirements in particular. Among them, external configuration storage with Spring Cloud Config and Git was not covered, secrets encryption both for the cloud configuration and Kubernetes configuration also was not covered. You can learn about these good practices in the first post of this cloud deployment series: [Kubernetes to the Cloud with Spring Boot and JHipster](/blog/2021/06/01/kubernetes-spring-boot-jhipster). Keep learning, and for more content on JHipster, check out the following links:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This has been a brief walkthrough for deploying JHipster to a DigitalOcean's managed Kubernetes cluster. Some important topics for production deployment were not covered in this post, to focus in particular on DigitalOcean resource requirements. Some key topics we did not cover in this post include external configuration storage with Spring Cloud Config and Git and secrets encryption both for the cloud configuration and Kubernetes configuration. You can learn about these good practices in the first post of this cloud deployment series: [Kubernetes to the Cloud with Spring Boot and JHipster](/blog/2021/06/01/kubernetes-spring-boot-jhipster). Keep learning, and for more content on JHipster, check out the following links:
```
